Now we test a d application on a real device which is of course pretty nice and also amazing to see
it run there before development.
I will actually use a simulator which is a virtual device running on my machine somebody so that I don't
constantly have to test the app on my real device.
I like having it here also makes it easier for recording.
You probably also want to test the app on a simulator at some point for example because you probably
only own either Android or an ISIS device and you also want to test and see your app onto your respective
other platform where you have both devices you have an iPhone you have an Android phone but you also
want to test your app on an older iPhone on a smaller Android device and with simulators and emulators
you can launch different types of devices and test your app there to get started with that.
Go to the guides section down there and click on.
Up and Running doesn't matter where you click though in the end you just need to get to dock stowed
exposed on Io and they are in the managed workflow.
You can click on IAW simulator where Androids do you emulator and there you'll learn how to install
Android Studio and then launch a virtual device or install X code which is Apple's development environment
and launch an ISIS simulator important ISIS simulator can only be launched on Mac OS devices because
X code a tool which you absolutely need for dad is not available on Windows or Linux so you can't run
in Iowa's simulator on Windows or Linux you can run an Android Studio emulator there though on Mac OS
you can run both.
So let's now install these things and let's start with the androids.
You emulator for it as your first of all need to install Android Studio for this you can of course simply
google for Android Studio and you should find developer dot Android dot com slash studio simply click
on there and then there choose download Android Studio and agree to these terms here.
Now this will open up that download window and now download Android Studio which is quite large and
deal for this download can take a while.
Now I'll be back once this download is finished.
To then continue with the setup so the download finished for me and with that I'm opening this up now
I'm on Mac here but all the windows you simply will double click on that downloaded file to start the
installer and the installer will open up and walk you for a couple of steps.
Now in that installer you can simply leave all the default settings now with the Android Studio installed
and the installation finished will launch in a second.
Now before I launch to camera with you when we walk through this first step make sure you have these
settings down there on Mac OS and Linux configured correctly.
So in Windows you should need to do that.
But on Mac OS and Linux make sure you follow these two steps which you'll find in the official docs
so that everything works correctly now with that let's launch Android Studio once you started.
You should see a screen that looks something like this.
There you can click on configure and then choose the SDK manager.
Now here in the SDK manager make sure that you have one of the latest SDK is installed.
Now typically you have the topmost SDK which is is still in beta.
So in my case that's the Android API level 29 Q which has no official name yet.
And the latest stable where in my case pi is the one you should install.
Typically the second item here in that list.
So the first word which has a real name so to say in this case pi.
Make sure that this is installed simply by checking it here.
And once you've checked it you can click apply down there and this will automatically download and install
it besides having an SDK installed make sure that in the SDK tools you have the android emulator installed
here.
So simply click on this year at a checkmark here and the SDK platform tools and the SDK tools that all
these free are checked here also check into X 86 emulator accelerator here and the Google Play Services
with all of the checked click apply.
And now again this will prompt you and then start downloads of all these items and install them into
your android setup here and you need all these things installed to develop Android applications.
So let's wait for this download and installation to finish here and with that finished you're done here.
You can close that and the next step still in that Android Studio window here is that you click on configure
a video manager.
This is the manager that allows you to create and launch virtual devices.
You see I got a couple of devices already.
You might have non You can always create a new one in the bottom left corner by clicking on create virtual
device and then choose a phone here and you can choose any image you want here to create different devices
of different sizes.
I would recommend going with one that has to play store installed that can help with testing certain
features which we might need later.
But in general you can pick any image here which you want.
I'll go with the pixel to here click next.
Then she was an android virgin.
You want to use on that the vice.
And there.
I would use the latest a stable one.
So not the beta one not Q In my case but the latest stable one you might need to download it first.
This image this is independent from the S2 case you installed a second ago.
These are device images so make sure you download the latest stable one and select it thereafter after
click on Next.
You can leave the default settings here.
You could dive into advanced settings if you really know what you're doing but otherwise you can leave
the defaults and click finish and this will now create a new emulator.
In my case this one here and you can launch the emulator by clicking that green play button here and
this will now start that emulator here which is now booting up here and once it is booted up you can
run your expo app you'll react native app on this emulator.
So let's wait for this to finish.
Let me then show you how to launch your expo app on that emulator so the emulator finished up booting
and now you can launch your app on this emulator simply by going to your project where you might have
your process is still running if you quit it.
You can simply restart NPM start in your react native Expo project.
So that's what I'm doing here and it's again starting the expo dev tools in the browser here and now
here where we proceed scant is QR code you can press run on Android device or emulator and if you have
an emulator up and running it will automatically run your app there or in your terminal here where you
have to is running and people start process.
You can press a to all the launch your app on the emulator.
That's what I just did.
This will now install the expo client on the emulator automatically.
So you don't need to install or manually install the expo client there it's done for you.
And once it's done with that it builds your app and runs it on that Android device.
So let's wait for this to finish.
Here it is here it's booting up and yes click OK here you're prompted whether you want to allow displaying
does app the first time you launch this turned as on your then go back go 2D Abdur here or to do task
manager and go back into your app here and now here is your expo app launching it's again building that
JavaScript bundle at the bottom and once it's done it will launch your expo app here and only that first
build takes quite long subsequent rebuilds and hot reloads as you saw are pretty fast.
So let's wait for this bill to finish and now it is finishing up here and here we see our app by the
way.
This is nice.
We saw it on the iPhone before at least here in the videos.
Now here it's running on Android and the button is one of the very few components react native offers
which does automatically adjust its look to the platform.
So that's pretty sweet.
And we have the same functionality as before and this allows us to test as not only on the real device
but also in a simulator.
And there you can simulate any android device you want which is of course pretty useful.
So that's the app running on an android simulator.
And throughout this course I will always always show how this runs and works on an android emulator.
Now let's next dive into running this on OS.